---
title: "Evaluation of Hybrid Quantum Approximate Inference Methods on Bayesian Networks"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/paper
# excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
date: 2023-12-07
venue: 'International Conference on Big Data Analytics'
paperurl: 'https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-031-49601-1_10'
citation: 'Nayak, P., Seshadri, K. (2023). Evaluation of Hybrid Quantum Approximate Inference Methods on Bayesian Networks. In: Goyal, V., Kumar, N., Bhowmick, S.S., Goyal, P., Goyal, N., Kumar, D. (eds) Big Data and Artificial Intelligence. BDA 2023. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 14418. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-49601-1_10'
---

Bayesian networks are a type of probabilistic graphical model widely used to characterize various real-world problem scenarios due to their ability to model probabilistic dependence between variables. In classical bayesian networks, performing exact as well as approximate inferences are NP-Hard. Quantum circuit developed to represent bayesian network can be used to perform inference, but it is prone to quantum noise and strictly limited by the maximum number of shots that can be performed on the quantum hardware. In this paper, we propose a technique to implement hybrid quantum approximate inference methods and subsequently analyze their performance on the quantum circuit representation of the bayesian network. The approach involves computing priors and conditionals from the quantum circuit generated samples to perform likelihood-weighted sampling and MCMC-based sampling. The intuition behind this approach is that a quantum circuit can compromise on the structural dependency of the bayesian network due to the decoherence errors and also has difficulty in encoding the probability of rare events, which can be overcome with the help of hybrid quantum inference techniques. The error analysis on different types of queries has been carried out to compare the sampling approaches for three Bayesian Networks. All the experiments performed in this paper utilize the SV1 quantum simulator provided by the Amazon Braket environment.
